and grow this to over 100 million and
make just about every mistake you could
building a ass business um and um what I
want to talk about today is perhaps the
mistake that that most of us make
probably by my uh you know
non-statistically significant study 70%
of us make which is not hiring the wrong
first vpa sales that's if if I give you
one bit of advice and when learning from
the mistakes I make which I'll share as
a case study and the mistakes my my and
Friends make is if you can maximize the
success for this higher for your
recurring Revenue business this is the
probably the number one best thing you
can do to accelerate your business once
you have a smidge of something right
once you have a little bit of traction
um anyhow that's my background now I'm
uh I I I did sell echosign to Adobe I
ran their web Business Service Unit
which did 180 million last quarter um
but now I I just invest in SAS companies
that's all I do I don't want to learn
anything new I don't want to do like
biotech or like like well the assistant
thing is pretty cool where's that was
pretty entertaining yeah yeah make their
revenue recur I'm interested um but I
don't want to do anything all I want to
do is like practice what I learned and
and sort of do better at it and then we
have this community saster hopefully
some of you have seen it um but we get
about 700,000 views a month and a
thousand pieces of content on core and
you know if it's helpful to you it's got
everything from you know how to build
the sales comp plan how to think about
hiring to VP marketing how to hire
customer success team just everything
everything that I learned uh I just
decided to share everything back cuz
after we got acquired I had nothing left
to hide
um so with that let me kind of um let me
just walk you through and let me step
back who um who has who's got a startup
that's sub 1 million in recurring
Revenue okay that's good uh who's
between 1 and
10 all right and who's who's over
20 oh it's relatively small okay well
you can help we'll do it together um so
so let's step back the one so so
generally what happens is 95% of us SAS
Founders while we may have done some
sales in our career we're not we're not
classically trained in sales right there
are a handful of us but most of us are
either from engineering or product
backgrounds um and it's pretty rare that
a VP sales comes out and and founds his
or her own sasy more power to you um and
so the number one one of the maybe top
10 mistakes everybody makes is they want
to hire this vpa sales too early right
they get this thing going they build
this really cool product I've got Amy
going I've got 5,000 people on it but
I'm only doing 10,000 bucks a month in
Revenue right like that's great but that
doesn't that doesn't even really pay for
the for one engineer fully burdened and
I've got four right and I don't know
anything about sales and I'm kind of
doing these this thing I got to hire the
first VP of sales like tomorrow right
and the number one thing that I think
I'll tell you is unfortunately for
better wors it has to be you you have to
be the first VP of sales for the simple
reason that if you you first of all for
two simple reasons one you can't attract
anybody good when you're that early a VP
sales wants to make money and want to
make make a lot of money in their stock
but they want to make coin and anyone
that's good is not going to join your
company at $5,000 or $2,000 a month it's
just not going to happen um uh sometimes
you may have to do that and we'll chat
about it but you're not going to get
anybody good two if you hire too early
you don't have a recurring process until
you have a recurring process you can't
drop someone's senior and have them
accelerate it so it's got to be you
right and here's going back in time
here's kind of our built how I built up
our user count you know in the beginning
it's you um then what a lot of us do
when that I do is you you hire a few
reps yourself you figure it out after
you've made the first sales yourself and
then once you've got something ideally
at least maybe a million in Revenue a
million and a half what I call the
initial attraction then actually you're
probably ready for that VP s sometimes
you'll hire it a little earlier than
that but we'll chat about it but really
structurally you're just not ready
you're going to have you're going to
have to hack it and make it happen until
then
um and my one sort of tip I want to go
into so that when you do make this
higher you do it right is whatever you
do have two reps that are performing
well be before you hire head as Hils if
you only have one you're not running an
AB test and you really have no idea why
this one rep is doing well right if you
look at any SAS startup in the first
couple reps they always find one guy or
gal that's just amazing right just
killing it they're closing they're
booking a million bucks a year and then
the next person's doing 200k and then
there's four guys that can't close
anything right um if you don't have two
of those you really don't know what's
happening right it's not that that
person's like so amazing or such a
magician right that you have to create a
repeatable process if you're going to
scale up sales team so whatever you do
hire two right and they're not that
expensive right you know there's a lot
of angst when you don't have a lot of
money to hiring sales reps don't forget
about two things you know you don't get
your bonus unless you close Revenue
right and salary vests right so whatever
that salary is you only have to pay half
of it if they don't earn their bonus and
you only have to pay a 12th of it a
month reps are not expensive if they
perform and in fact if they close almost
anything they're creative they make you
money so hire don't whatever you do
don't hire one hire two um
sort of my number one tip in the early
days and then let's step back it's you
you've got two reps performing maybe a
third that's doing okay you're getting a
little bit of traction you've got to
half million Revenue a million of
Revenue and you're ready to bring in a
VP of sales okay and if you haven't made
this higher before and most of you
haven't let me tell you the probably the
most important thing to understand what
this job actually does okay um and
notice what the last one is closing
Revenue okay the number five on the top
five things list that a VP of sales does
is close deals okay I'm not saying they
don't close Revenue okay is a VP of
sales but let's step back a minute
you've got three reps on your team
already okay doing whatever Revenue four
and you want to Triple your Revenue
you're going to need 8 10 reps just to
hit the plan in 12 months your VPS sales
number one job is getting 8 to 10 great
people on your team not 8 to 10 mediocre
people not three people at the bottom
that waste your leads be getting 8 to 10
people on your team so this is the
number one job of VP sales right and
what I'm sure you've seen if you manage
any reps is the performance is Divergent
right so if that vpa sales does nothing
else but increase the quality of folks
on your sales team as measured by
Revenue per lead um you're going to see
amazing things happen Okay and um so
number one is recruiting so I'll get
into this in a minute but when you're
recruiting to vpa sales if nothing else
asks them who did you recruit at your
last company right who did you hire if
this person did not successfully hire at
least three to for good reps even if
they're young they're not a VP sales
okay if they inherited a team that was
somewhat successful they didn't recruit
any of them they're not a vpa sales
maybe you'll take that risk we'll chat
about it but if they don't know how to
do this they can't really take your
company to the next level okay and I
can't tell you how many SAS companies
I've worked with to hire some super
smart person 160 IQ sort of manage six
people at their last company but didn't
really hire any of them you know how
many of those make it to like 3 million
in Revenue zero okay if you can't
recruit a team you can't do the job so
that's number one number two was if they
may not be selling but they're
backfilling right if you haven't worked
with a great VP of sales they've got
three four 10 people under them they
know every deal at least every deal
that's of any size and so what they're
doing is they're seeing the mistakes
they make they're focused on where they
can help they're bringing resources in
whether it's from product or engineering
or their own skills and they're
backfilling that team so they're
managing all the deals they're just not
necessarily closing all of them been
last tactics right how do we get more
Revenue out of the company right you're
customers you're thinking about that all
the time how do I get my deal size up
how do I increase pricing he or she will
think about that strategy actually comes
down the page when you hire vpa sales
and all they want to talk about in the
interview is strategy strategy strategy
I I'm not sure they're closer right um
but it is important right how eventually
how do you how do you go from maybe a 5k
a year product to 20K a year to 100K a
year how you going to do this
strategically and again last Crea and
selling deals him or herself because if
you think about that math so you've got
a VP of sales doing aill million bucks a
year you want to increase your Revenue
to 3 or 4 million there's all if you
have him or her carrying a bag for too
long it's not going to work there's too
many people to manage right and so I may
have this right here you know one of the
other classic mistakes people when they
make this higher especially because they
worry about money and we all worry about
money until we get to about 10 million
in revenue and then money doesn't matter
anymore okay at 10 million in Revenue
when you hit initial scale there's so
much mment in the business whether
you're VC back a lot of VC back a little
whether you're whether you're
self-funded it doesn't matter at 10
million you can fund so many people but
until then money matters but one of the
B best biggest ways you can waste money
is making someone a player coach for too
long cuz they got to bring these people
in you can do it for a quarter right
prove them out have them hold a quota
but if you've got this person holding a
quota on their own as an individual
contributor in addition of the team for
a year you're waste you're wasting this
person's time so any this player coach
is another sign that maybe you're hiring
someone that isn't that that that season
they
experienced um and just you know one
more Insight on when to make the hire um
we we chatted about um not doing it too
early classic mistake is hireing someone
before you have a repeatable process I
don't have a repeatable process I want
to hire Linda to create it for me Linda
will not succeed nine times out of 10
you've got to have a repeatable process
but just as importantly this is what I
see all the time honestly if you wait
even one month after you have a
repeatable process you're losing money
right let's imagine you get here you're
doing a million in Revenue let's pick a
number let's say you've got 200 leads a
month coming in whatever the number is
50 100 doesn't really matter soon as you
bring this great VP sales in and I'll
show you this in a minute your Revenue
per lead will go up you'll make more
money off those leads okay so if you
don't have that higher ready to go the
minute you get initial traction you're
flushing you're you're at least sub
optimizing those leads best case worst
case you're wasting time you're wasting
your life you've got to get from like 1
and a half to 10 as fast as possible in
SAS and you need this resource to help
you right so two early is a disaster
like n 98 times out 100 but to late
you're wasting your life as an
entrepreneur right um and we'll chat a
little bit more about that and what it
really means if you think about it we
talked about how getting a really great
VP sales you know on month three is
impossible but it takes a long time to
recruit someone that's good okay let's
imagine I'm at I'm you know I'm at some
hot SAS company um I'm a VP sales I'm
making $400 $500,000 a year why am I
going to join your company okay it's a
cash driven business not only am I
making $4 or $500,000 but I have I have
a great team right I like my team if
you've worked in a sales in with a great
VP of sales they create great teams they
like to stay together and like work
together why would they come to your
company well there may be good reasons
right maybe that that company got
acquired like relate IQ I mean those
resumes are flying already um there may
be other reasons but the thing is even
when that happens that person's going to
take their time right if you've hired
like a VP of engineering impossible hire
but when they love something they jump
right they jump It's they get 20 great
offers there's a million startups that
want to hire great V but they'll get
their equity and they'll just go and
make it happen BPS sales is a strong
incentive to wait right CU they want
cash and equity and it's a higher risk
it's a higher risk change for them so my
point is as early as you are you may not
be here you should be you should be
pre-recruited this person you should be
meeting with as many potential VP sales
candidates as you can because this may
be a 6 to 12 month higher okay it's
brutal it may be a 6 to 12 month higher
so don't wait
um one other point I want to get in and
then I'll then I'll talk a little bit
about my mistakes this you'll learn as
you seeing more and more uh with almost
with so many startups a mediocre VP of
sales is a cost center right think about
this math I hit 2 million in revenue and
here's an average of what what the OT is
for vpa sales and you know $300,000
that's an average OT and certainly can
be a lot more expensive than that that's
bonus plus base right OT and you're like
$300,000 I man that's that's that's a
lot of money right and it turns out a
mediocre VP sales that's just closing
the deals you would have closed
otherwise but taking $300,000 out of
your own pocket is clearly a cost center
it's a frustrating painful expensive
cost center but a great VP of sales and
I and I learned this when I went from my
crappy VP of sales to my great VP of
sales the first one was a disastrous
cost center um the second one I he made
me money in 60 days okay and a great
one's VP a creative is a creative and
the simple reason is they'll raise your
Revenue per lead they'll take those 100
leads a month 200,000 and you'll figure
out what your leads are closing without
this great VB sales they're closing $70
per lead $7,000 per lead whatever it is
and a great VP sales will increase that
okay he or she will increase it cuz she
know he or she knows how to close they
know how to ask for the maximum amount
of money per deal without pissing off
the customer they know how to they know
how to ask about budgeting they know how
to get the deal on this month this
quarter right so it does close and your
Revenue per lead will go up and if
you're at 2 million in revenue and this
vpa sales increases your Revenue per
lead 10 or 20% he or she more than pays
for herself right there forget about any
other changes right and what I learned
this and I'll and I'll show you in a
minute my first VP sales I raised are
what used to be called the series B now
it's called the series a a lot changed
and I raised my 5 million bucks and I
went out and I hired my VP sales from
the big tech company and I'll show you
the chart in a minute but but things
just went off the rails it was terrible
I called it my year of hell and I'll
show you a chart things went off the
rail and there was this little event
like I don't know if anyone in New York
remembered like Leman Brothers went
under like there was a lot of drama
going on that year so it wasn't was n
really clear what the root cause at the
time was of our of our Revenue decline
right and I only I only understood it
with hindsight um it was clear and I
going to talk about this minut it was
clear within 30 days he was a mistake
that's my my failure as a CEO not his it
was clear in 30 days and I kept him and
what happened was under him the revenue
per lead declined when it was me and my
three reps I don't remember what our
Revenue per lead was but and when I
actually tracked and went back it went
down 50% okay um Turned out and I'll
show you this chart later our leads even
through Leeman Brothers there was no
there was no deceleration our leads our
leads just kept going up and up and up
but if the revenue per lead goes down
what happens of the net revenue right it
decelerates right I hired my second VP
of sales who was one of my customers he
was the first head of sales in from
LinkedIn then 60 days he had doubled the
revenue per lead okay how did he how did
he do that did he create a great
outbound program no there's no time in
60 days right did he he stuffed the
funnel no it's 60 days right he brought
great business processes with him and he
brought three reps his first week he PL
three of his best reps from LinkedIn
they came in they didn't know my product
they didn't know its flaws they didn't
know anything but they knew how to close
in a competitive environment in 60 days
he doubled our Revenue right so this is
the whole thing and talk about a
creative within that we are cash flow
positive within six months okay um so
that's as ACC creative as it
gets so let me just summarize this
quickly and go on to a little bit more
um but why we we hit most of this but
why will it increase the revenue per
lead I know I hit this but if you
haven't lived in it let me explain to
you again why Revenue per lead will go
up with a great not a good but a great
VP of sales right they'll do a few
things certainly better than you will as
entrepreneurs entrepreneurs founder
cosos they're great middlers okay
they're great people when the email
comes in I'd like to buy your product
you you we're all really good at demos
and passionate about our product and we
know all the features and we know how to
we know how to like demo demo everything
but but we're not always that good at
getting the check on December 31st okay
and and and if you've ever with the
great VP sales you'll see this amazing
phenomenon like December 31st is the
best day of the year like why would that
be like think about as a buyer I was a
VP in the Fortune 500 Adobe what
incentive do I have to buy anything on
December 31st right there are some
budget issues right but is there any way
I'm going to deploy that product the
next day right I'm on vacation I'm not
even in the office right I mean nobody
at Adobe worked the last two weeks of
December right so how do you do this
this is the magic of sales right they
know how to ask they know how to get the
clothes to develop the relationship they
know how to hire people better than you
right better reps equals more Revenue
per lead right they know how to scale
right they'll bring in like Brandon
brought in three people the first week
right they know the amount of headcount
that you need to drive the revenue um
and what they'll do is they'll they'll
position you the right way up market
right as Founders as founder CEOs eight
and a half times out of 10 we underprice
and under position okay because we come
in and we're like the last thing you
want to do is not close a lead right all
in the early days probably until you're
like 10 to 20 million milon in Revenue
every lead is precious especially to a
Founder right I mean I remember at
eosine when we got Google and Groupon
and Facebook like all these cool names
I'm like whatever you do these have to
close right I mean I wanted the six
figureure deals but you lose Facebook
man you're fired
okay right I just whatever we just we
got to get Facebook and that's and
that's great right we get the brand and
and we get we get we get second order
Revenue in referrals we should do that
but what it often means as Founders CEOs
is we're not great at optimizing the
maximum amount of Revenue and also
pushing pushing this and pushing it up
market and your vpa sales will do all of
that um and make it more fun right and
so all of this together like this is
great what it will do is increase the
revenue per lead you know and as long as
you're even at a million and a half in
Revenue whatever that OT the untarget
earnings the total amount you pay him
her as you can see in the mass she'll
pay he or she will pay for
themselves um and um we hit a lot of
this um too late don't don't take 20
months um the one thing I'll touch on a
little bit um but but but the sort of
middle of the Paradox right a CH we
there's sort of two mistakes that we
often make with vpa sales um one is we
want to hire the person out of
Salesforce or pick your pick pick your
big company right that's that sounds
like something that's great we want the
domain expertise we have a similar
customer set you know first of all don't
forget Salesforce is a $5 billion
company now okay it ain't a startup and
we know that the odds of a big company
guy coming from a five or coming we know
that the Oracle VP doesn't work
Salesforce is the same as Oracle today
right so we get over attracted to the
name um and maybe we end up making
someone that's too heavy a hire this is
a challenge right um or the tough one is
do we do we give on experience right I
want to chat about that my real point
and maybe my my my Salesforce story got
me a little off point my real point is
with vpa sales you're probably not going
to get the perfect Tire okay the perfect
tire is you know we all want you know uh
rock stars whatever TR term you want to
use
okay and maybe you'll get that in your
VP of engineering your VP of product
possibly your VP marketing but the
problem with your VP sales is that that
super great guy that's good at going
from 30 million to 150 million he's not
a good fit for you right and maybe that
person that kind of hacks it from Z to a
million which maybe needs to be you
they're not going to be a good fit for
you right and so what's what's the
trade-off right and we'll chat about
that a little bit but the one thing I'll
tell you is you can't you can't get the
perfect candidate right and if you get
the perfect candidate on paper like this
guy from Salesforce it's probably not
very good right cuz um uh cuz you can't
have it all um and let me explain to you
how to get as close to that as possible
but just a couple a couple quick things
um why do we all why do 70% of folks
hire the wrong VP sales I'll tell you
about it why that in a minute they hire
at the wrong stage the wrong type of
person but maybe the real reason we do
it is because we got to get it done
right we're getting to traction we've
got a million and a half 2 million
Revenue we're like it's just like me
after I raised that series B series a
whatever it was I got to get it done
right I just raised that venture capital
I got this obligation I got no VP sales
I haven't even met a VP sales like it's
I just got to get this done and so we
make a bad hire right um and we all do
this um and I've made bad VP sales I've
made bad VP of engineering I've made a
few others but I think actually of all
the bad hires you can make VP sales is
the worst because it's far worse than no
hire at all right at least if you hire a
horrible VP of engineering which is
terrible but as long as the rest of the
engineering team agrees on that person
here or she'll probably write a little
bit of code right you'll get a release
or two out and then there'll be a
disaster explaining and I never read it
until after we were quied I couldn't
bear right and I I assumed it said I was
incompetent right which which you know
that's I was incompetent to hire him
like agreed um but actually when I
finally read it when we were cleaning
out the desk to move to Adobe
headquarters it actually said um it's
not my fault it's Jason's fault because
the company wasn't ready to have a VP of
sales none of it's my fault because it
wasn't ready to have a VP so whose fault
it's not my it's not his fault the
company wasn't ready it's not
marketing's fault you don't know whose
fault it is so so this is just this is
just the bad hire is a disaster because
everyone will blame each other the leads
are they all say the leads got worse
right the leads are crappy there's no
more good Googles and Facebooks it's
like it's uh it's just Amy and and she
could only pay five bucks a month I it's
great as cool as the company is these
are like crap marketing G me crappy
crappy leads right and so you end up
with this marketing against sales leads
thing it's just a disaster because you
you're the only one as CEO that will
really know like who's right here um so
you can't make this bad higher um and
then let me just last this is this is
one of the most important kind of charts
it's a little complicated in SAS that I
think informs the whole revenue cycle
but um as you start to get a a SAS
business going in the second and third
and fourth years right it's hard to feel
this in the first year you'll realize
that the whole thing is about second
order Revenue okay the whole thing cuz
first of all these customers you get in
the first year and I'm color blind I'm
sorry you close this for 10,000 but then
they renew in the second year they renew
in the third year they renew in the
fourth year they in the fifth year but
then they do more they upgrade if you
treat them incredibly well from both the
sales and a customer success perspective
they'll buy more from you if you make
them loyal if you make them truly like
ad nudely loyal if you make them love
you they will buy more right um and then
not only that they'll refer you to their
friends right and then they'll quit
their job and go to another company and
they'll bring you into their company
right the second order Revenue but if
you if if you have a bad VP of sales and
that that longtime relationship starts
off bad and we I track this later you
don't get any of this right they don't
buy they only buy the absolute minimum
that they have to right it's like United
Airlines you know I'm stuck in the
frequent flyer program but I'm not
buying anything from United I'm not
going to buy a car from United I'm not
going to buy jeans I mean that's it the
minimum I have to right they're not
going to buy anything and you're
certainly not going to tell your friends
to fly United um so it's not just the
revenue loss that I had with the bad vpa
sales it was all the customers he closed
were unhappy right and I lost all these
Downstream effects in years 2 3 4 five
right and this is the power and SAS
right I realized once we got to even
just four or five million a year or so
but it had been a little while I
realized we could grow 80% a year with
no sales I don't mean with no sales
people what I meant is we could grow 80%
a year just with leads from the existing
base buying more and referring us to
more people and building the brand right
we didn't we could grow 80% without any
outbound or any sort of complex lead
generation stuff just from the base
right but if you misin in that like
you're dead so I'm a big fan of over
investing in customer success as a
function we won't chat about it today
but no matter how great your customer
success team is if your vpa sales isn't
great it's going to ruin that that
relationship from the beginning so
um so again just a quick reminder I know
we did this story I I'll skip ahead to
it but why then after all that mess did
were able to double sales in 90 days
upgraded the team to closers right they
worked the first week they didn't know
the product right um what you'll see if
you hire a VP of sales and you have a
team and if you don't see this it's
trouble okay if you hired a VP of sales
and all he or she keeps all the Reps you
have that's trouble okay because they
know that they're not all they're not
all great they can't if you have three
or four folks in your team the bottom
person like you you're not a sales
manager they can't be that great I can
tell you if they say they're all great
I'm keeping or or if they this is even
worse if the VP s says I need I need to
keep all of them you know he or she
can't recruit right they never do that
the good ones immediately analyze the
team right go over the weaknesses with
you and immediately make changes
whatever it is and sometimes it'll even
be a promotion right but if there's no
changes um it's tough right so what
Brendan did is actually there was you
know he took the best the best probably
the best guy on our team at the time
where the number two guy was just an SDR
he was a junior sales rep just cold
calling and qualifying deals he
immediately made him head of SNB right
within a year he was head of Enterprise
now he's VP sales at zenitz he manages
over 100 sales reps okay okay so you
know you got to see motion up or down on
this chain okay um and then one last
couple things that I know if you see in
a VPS sales once you hire them that's
worrisome um pipeline o you know I mean
you work at a billion dooll company like
pipeline's really important okay show me
the visuals do the analytics if you're
at a startup right for me pipeline is a
sign of failure right how much revenue
you going to close this month I don't
need to see the charts and I don't need
to see $7 million next to Comcast or $12
million next to whoever ever right cuz
that stuff's all crap like it doesn't
mean anything and what I learned is the
mediocre VP is sales in an early stage
SAS company talk about building the pipe
building the pipe and then the pipe
doesn't close and it's not my fault it's
it's get those sales Cycles are getting
longer right the good ones there's no
pipeline right it's just what's the Mr
addition I'm going to do each month and
when Brendan came in we never discussed
pipeline again at least not for a long
time not till we at 10 million right and
one last one and how we doing on time we
doing all right yeah another flag in but
brenon my first VP of sales could not
handle competition right as soon as our
as soon as our competition was in a deal
he folded I can't compete you know oh
man oh the competition's so much better
I lose I quit you know the the Jason and
the engineering product guys can't build
a good product right and you know what
maybe it's true right but the great ones
Embrace competition they love to win
right and it's a game right and maybe
they give up on some deals that you
really can't win but all of a sudden our
win rate went up our real win rate you
embrace it it's a game right so and I've
interviewed so many vpa sales candidates
for so many companies since then and and
and yes maybe you're in a space that has
no competition like and and we we laugh
at that it is true most of the folks at
Salesforce places like that they don't
really have the type of competition
they're it's hard to be a rapid
Salesforce but because you got to force
people to close and buy when they don't
really have any reason to buy this month
or quarter but they don't have to
embrace competition but if you have
competition and 90% of us do a VP sales
that doesn't embrace it just it's it's
not going to work right
um but he did and all of a sudden we
Clos more
deals um and then maybe just a couple
last points on this this is the mistake
I alluded to before that a lot of us
make but there really are I I kind of
made up these four stages of VP sales on
the way from nothing to 100 million um
the later ones um actually you probably
can find right I call it Mr dashboards
right they're managers of managers right
they manage man or sometimes managers of
managers of managers and they're really
good at hitting the refresh button in
Salesforce and getting the reports and
talking about pipeline um and they're
really good at selling up and they
usually look pretty good in a suit um
but they don't they don't sell or even
they've only H managed managers so it's
too far away right so you got to be
really careful of that person at the
other end this is the higher I hope you
don't have to make but sometimes do I
call this person the Evangelist right
this is someone who's actually that
sometimes you hire between zero and a
million that's never built a sales team
of any size right um and we often make
this higher and they're super smart and
the evangelists like they really they've
already studied your product to the
entree before you meet them and they
have all these great ideas but it's like
it's a little too producty you know why
cuz they're really just an evangelist
right they're just like you um but but
probably not as good sometimes you do
need to hire this person because you're
burnout and you need leverage but this
person will be gone by a million and a
half in Revenue I can tell you nine
times out of 10 the person that that's
totally smart 160 IQ loves your product
can talk to them today but has no
experience managing a team or closing
they'll be gone in your company here
right and so anyhow there's these
different phases I call 1 to 10 Mr make
it repeat
someone that comes in they bring in the
3 to four to six reps and they build
this up to 10 and then there's a
different category MGO big but my real
point is if you hire someone that's two
stages above where you're at and bring
them in high high chance of failure
right I you know I think you can risk
doing one stage above so in other words
if you're doing 1 million right um I
think you can risk hiring someone that's
only done 10 to 50 million right it's a
risk cuz they haven't done your stage
but eventually they get there right two
stages is is too much right and if they
haven't done your stage like the
Evangelist 100% chance of failure right
so maybe it's sort of the one stage risk
that you take um is one type of risk to
take or the other type of risk to take
is someone that's more Junior than you
want right it's you're going to hire a
director of sales masquerading as a VP
of sales right and and there's the
trade-offs there I think that generally
works as long as they've at least hired
three or four good people right at least
they can do that piece um but in any
event whatever you do you have to
realize you're not the same person may
not make it all four of these
stages so kind of last couple points um
but when you're going to make this
higher um let me I and I even have a
script that I put on the on the blog but
let me just tell you the key things that
you can do to screen and I screen a lot
of candidates and I don't even need to
know the product or anything to to
figure out whether they can do the job
right um first I look for because this
controls for almost everything uh uh
have they sold at next year's Target ACV
okay because let's say your product AC's
annual contract value what your
product's price per year if your product
today is say 300 bucks a month okay okay
that's great but next but you're
starting to get a few bigger customers
and your goal next year is to do 20K
deals 20K ACV deals if this person has
sold at 20K he or she will have
developed the skills necessary for your
company for no matter what it does 20K
there's different bands sort of a you
know a there's the very bottom of the
market you know premium self-service you
know there's just if you have
salespeople there's a certain set of
skills there it's really just pushing
pushing it through the process you know
at 3 to 5K this this kind of
transactional thing it's quick s Cycles
right a lot of people a lot of volume
there's a set of skills there the sort
of 20 to 40K thing is sort of
consultative um and then as you get into
the six figures you can get on Jets a
lot right because you can have you can
have a lot of people not closing a lot
of deals and so what types of outbound
versus inbound do you use right what
types of people do you hire how do you
think about qualification sdrs and price
points and sales operations we can talk
about all this stuff in sales but it
turns out you pretty much sell products
at a given ACV the same way right so if
you love this kenet and they're the
greatest person in the world and your
product's going to be 5,00 a year next
year and they worked at and they work
and they worked at success factors in
the Enterprise 500k a year group do not
hire them right no matter how smart they
are and how many people they do not know
how to sell your product right but next
year's Target ACV I can guarantee you
90% certainty they have the skill set
they need for you right so this is
almost that plus tell me the last three
or four reps you successfully hired
those two questions I feel like I get
like 90% of what I need in a hire right
then we talked a little bit similar you
know are they comfortable and comp
how do they think about outbound and
inbound you'll learn about that and then
we talked about it cuz this just goes to
hiring who are the first three people
you bring with and I got to tell you
this question like you're going to want
to hire people that fail this question
again going back to it don't make this
mistake like I I mean friend of mine's
got this great SAS company just hit 2
million I'm an advisor investor since
zero I told him not to hire the VP sales
I mean I love him um and he's gone
because he failed this test tell me the
first three people you bring with him I
don't know I don't know anybody to bring
with me right a great VP sales always
has at least a couple of people that
worked in their last gig that whatever
they do they want to go with them right
I mean LeBron James Mike Miller right
how much did he just lose going to to
the heat right LeBron's going to bring
every they want to go back it's not that
different right the great reps want to
stay with their own little LeBron and if
he or she worked somewhere and he
doesn't have at least two people that he
doesn't even have to email or talk to
you can just tell if there's not it's
hopeless right there is no chance so
this is this solves these sort of
interview question this solves for
recruiting right uh and this kind of
solves for whether it's going to work
out at your company size so you don't
accidentally hire the greatest person in
the world but the deal size is too big
they won't have your skill set almost
these these two can control for
everything and then the last tip I want
to give you this is I alluded to this
earlier don't overvalue domain expertise
right sales is sales my guys came in
from LinkedIn to echosign they didn't
know anything about our product and
within the first week the close rates
went up was that because of domain
expertise no it's because the deal size
was the same they knew how to close
customers Enterprise customers at the
same deal size they knew how to talk to
them they knew how to talk about talk
business process language the bigger the
deal the more you talk about business
process the smaller the deal the less
you talk about business process they had
this um and they knew how to do it so
don't don't everyone does this oh you
know this this person's out of real
estate like I got to hire this guy the
one guy that was really smart at uh
yardi or whoever it is don't don't hire
you know that'd be great but only if
they meet all the other criteria right
then you give extra points for for
domain expertise but the problem is we
all get we all get too excited about
this right we all get too excited about
the company that looks and feels like
the company we want to be but it doesn't
mean they have any of the skills to sell
to sell what we need to sell and I don't
think the product matters right I
literally I literally don't think it
matters yeah minutes two minutes yeah so
just real quickly one quick thing I want
to say and I'll end here and we can open
up to questions I looted this prefer
this is my this is the last tip if you
do all this and you still make the
higher you're going to know really fast
let me tell you I learned this myself
and now I've learned it like 20 times in
a row believe it or not you will know in
just a few months in fact you may know
in 30 days you will know 50% away
through your sales cycle let me just
walk you through the math and then we'll
then we'll break for questions say you
have a 60-day sales cycle right and you
had nothing before you had the crummy VP
sales before you come in you've got this
set of leads you've got this set of raw
materials whether you're doing poorly or
well if that person can't come in and
increase the revenue in one sales cycle
that comes out of them it is hopeless
right there is no excuse because either
they're going to do a better job with
what you have or not and I can tell you
I can't tell you even the stories from
the last year if this doesn't happen
it's just hopeless and I I saw this
magic happen in 60 days with my VP sales
doubling Revenue in 60 days and so don't
give them 6 months don't give them nine
months we all make mistakes right if
it's not there in one sales cycle don't
listen to the excuses it's just you've
just got to kill it and find the next
person yeah and when I call so I call I
TR you target VC funded companies and
have been Amazed by the number of
casualties among the VP sales yeah
70% yeah and when I asked the board I
ask a bunch of them uh they never say
what they couldn't recruit people they
tell me he was not able to put that
right process in place he did not
organize that thing like like I the Gen
closing machine they say they they
werble to you think they're making yeah
I 98% of e don't know what the hell
they're talking about they have no
operational background and they think
the fancy resume produces results and
they churn through VPS they're wrong
theying it on their lack of ability not
of recruiting the lack of ability to put
together a process why couldn't he put
it together a process how hard is how
hard is it to put together a process you
put together a script right you buy some
tools you hire some people you close
it's I you I I yeah I think it's just
the wrong person right they they're
they're under founder stress right they
have these VCS and you know I'm in one
myself now and they and they gave into
it they didn't they made the wrong hire
right I don't know if that they don't
blame themselves they blame the VP of
sales for not putting the right no it's
the CEO's fault for hiring the wrong VP
sales yeah the any VP sales that can
work at this stage what and you all have
crummy I mean we all have crummy
processes when we're when we're early
right that what here's the thing that
they'll do it goes back to my point
whatever your processes were before a
great VP sales will improve them right
and when they improve them what will
happen your Revenue per lead goes up
right I can't predict exactly how much
and when the revenue per lead goes up it
all clicks right it's it's so easy to
come into a company with 2 million
revenue for reps and the CEO who's never
sold and make things better right right
just just you know like track track the
leads call them back right I mean I I
I'm investing tomorrow in a company
doing 2 million Revenue I put three of
my guys in okay uh 80% of leads aren't
even called okay what do you think's
going to happen in 60 days boom okay
that's a process call the fraking leads
right and what did he do he already
brought in two people in the first week
I just got the picture when I was coming
here he brought in two people and they
will call 100% of leads that's not the
most sophisticated process in the world
right but it'll go up so so the is wrong
uh see sales reps more than anybody I
know learned by osmosis they listen to
each other's calls they listen they
watch it right training's great you have
to have training a a sales team that
sits together in the same room open
style that performs better so so yes you
want them together and you and we talked
about the VP sales once or there or once
you have managers they want to jump into
the deals so the manager needs to be sit
physically my view within within their
team um the um especially unless the
deal sizes are tiny I mean if you're
selling a product that's $20 or $30 a
month there's different things we could
talk about um the one that's and that
usually ends up being okay the one
that's tougher um and and I've seen it
with
companies in New York selling outside of
it and I've seen companies outside of
New York trying to sell into fve and
media and adtech and other spaces is can
I have the VP of sales being a different
office than the co and the and the VP of
product and the VP of engineering right
and so obviously that's a bad idea right
uh if you've worked in a with a
successful VP of sales in the early days
you'll realize that they're an extension
to your product team right they go out
they talk just to the customers they get
different types of feedback than the VP
product and the co does they yell at the
team because these feature gaps where
they lost the deal I could have closed
this $300,000 deal if only we were in
Romanian right and it's kind of true and
that doesn't work if you're not together
right and then the great the great VP
sales um and the early sales reps are a
key part of the product team so that's a
that's a bummer right um but you can't
have it all right um I think my Uber
learning is it just raises the bar
because um what I what I what what I
found is the really good vpa sales
candidates know this and they want to be
very close to the CEO right it's a risky
job and the great ones don't really want
to be in a different office than the CEO
right forget about that what's bad for
the company and so that one I find is
the biggest struggle right because at an
Uber level we all end up with
distributed teams at some point
sometimes we have a distributed team on
day one sometimes it's 10 years down the
road so you're going to end up getting
there but the the Great want to be close
to the co so I'm struggling to solve
that
one yeah can you break apart a little
bit the kind of when you know you've got
a repeatable process like what are the
what are the tea leads there like how
does that how does that look to you when
it's time to hire that BP is sales I
know I've got a repeatable process what
yes well I think so so um I I'll tell
you a few uh a few um drivers of it but
I'll just I'll give you just give you a
quantitative answer as long as your deal
size isn't like a million dollar or more
more it's about a million and a half in
Revenue okay a million and a half in
Revenue you've probably got at least 100
customers 50 customers you've got a
statistically significant number of
customers you've been at it for a little
while okay and usually when I and this
is exactly when I felt it but I've
talked with 20 or 30 50 SAS Founders as
you get to like a million you start to
see it like it's but it's not quite
there and when you get to about a
million and a half you just see I've got
this I can start to see that this many
leads per month however I get them
outbound inbound left bound right bound
I start to see that this many leads kind
of does produce this amount of Revenue
like I'm not totally sure why every deal
gets closed right there's a lot of
there's a lot of black art to the script
may not be perfect but I kind of start
to realize that if I get 100 leads a
month I'm going to get 100K in in new
ARR or whatever and and so for for a
variety of reasons 1.5 million I would
say is what it is right um maybe earlier
and if your deal size is really high I
mean maybe you're doing all six figure
deals so maybe you need to be a little
bit you need a statistically significant
number but that's when it kind of ma
magically you'll feel it cool yeah how
do you feel pre that point but you're
trying to get some process some better
scripts or some approaches to some
consultive help um somebody who comes in
spends a week or two goes through the
cycle a few times you're not ready to
have the VP of sales yeah but something
that you guys can never seen it work
sounds like a great idea um I think what
I'm I'm being sort of binary but not
quite factious let me tell you how I
answer that and then come back and
address it what I do think is important
when you hire are those first two sales
reps okay here's my one tip for these
first two sales reps this will work one
they have to have some experience okay
later you can hire all different types
of people later you can hire kids fresh
out of junior college or whatever you
want High School from you can import
them from Chile I don't care what you do
but the first two have to have a couple
years of real SAS experience okay they
don't even actually have to be and let
me get to the second point they don't
even have to be top of the Heap they
just have to have they least have to be
mid pack and the first year reps have to
be people that you would buy from okay
later you will find out you are nothing
like your average customer when you get
bigger you're just like your average
customer in the beginning and later the
universe will change okay and you will
get more Middle America and you will get
more this and you'll get more that and
if you try and higher reps like you you
will fail but if you would buy from the
first two folks then you know you can
trust those leads right these precious
leads um to this person right and if
they're at least mid pack then have to
be great and you would buy from them
then then and then because they have
experience they will bring at least
rudimentary processes in they have used
Salesforce okay they may not know how to
to use maretto but they can maybe set up
HubSpot for you they could probably buy
a purchase list if they have to and
email it right I mean they at least know
enough that probably more than you um
but if the first two have no experience
you're kind of dead in the water right
and those Consultants come in and you
know it doesn't work like well I'll help
you close some customers I'll do it 100%
on commission they work for about 5
minutes and it's hard cuz you're new and
they go away right they give you some
script but they don't really they're not
responsible for a revenue number so they
don't really iterate the script right
you can't listen to two calls and do a
good script you have to do 20 right so I
I that should work but I I've never I've
never seen it work right but but I the
way I do it is make sure those first two
reps have experience right at least two
good years right the first guy I hired
um the first rep and he made it all the
way to the end of last year he made over
800k last year he did great he made a
lot had a lot of equity I mean I hired
him both his parents were doctors super
smart guy um worked worked in his garage
uh not fully dressed that was a stick
okay but super smart I mean and he had
like five year of his experience it was
SAS it was mid pack he was not top of
the Heap right but super smart loved the
product I trusted him and he he knew
enough to get everything going so I
didn't have to be that guy
right yeah go ahead how do you think
about sales rep for companies with a
much lower
Mr well here's what I've learned uh and
I and I I you I I've shared math I think
that uh if you have a if let's step back
if you if it's about 300 bucks a month
or say $3500 $3600 a year that works
simply put it works okay do the math I
close I close 10 deals a month right um
I bring in you know uh I bring in that's
36,000 a month that's 400k a year I take
them 100 and something no te the math
works right so 300's well proven I call
that the WebEx model that's what WebEx
optimized around that's what a lot of
actually if you look at boxes box has a
lot of big deals but you know what
they're I don't know I sh was average
not median their average deal size is
like 3,800 bucks it's WebEx again I had
a lot of 3,800 Buck customer so that
works okay the thing about 3,800 bucks
is you have to it has to be almost all
inbound right it's too hard for most
products to make outbound work what I
learned from that one guy that that that
got promoted really quickly is if you're
hyper efficient you can make it work at
100 bucks okay because in instead of
closing 10 you got to close 30 right and
your average rep cannot do that it's too
many demos it's I mean how many demos a
day can you do 12 no you could do like
two or three right I mean when we have
Amy we could do like four or five okay
but without her like you you think these
sales reps don't have EAS I mean it's so
much work to set up three think three
Dem L is three hours plus you need a
half hour to prep and get your computer
ready and schedule the thing I mean so
so how can you how could you possibly
close 30 deals a month doing 100 and
something demos right but it is possible
in a very high velocity Market below 99
it starts to become basically you know
uh supported customer SU customer
support right a zenes does it zenes has
sales reps down to to to 10 bucks a
month they're stay-at-home they're
mostly stay-at-home parents moms or dads
that work part-time and they make but
they make very little money and because
they're stay-at home they work harder
than you or I would for that amount of
money but that's pretty pretty uncommon
right the real answer for most of us got
to drive your deal size up you got to
get to at least a hundred bucks a month
right um but in the but if you believe
if you believe your deal size can get to
like 300 and it's at 30 today it's cool
it's just an investment right then I
wouldn't sweat it
yeah anybody else yeah main differences
between the Sass and Perpetual licensing
because you kept keep emphasizing the
Sass piece well I personally I believe
that I mean at a at a exential product
level who cares it's just software it's
just a different way to sell it right
the real problem today is you can't
raise money you can't IPO you can't get
acquired for petual license so you're
dead in the water right ignoring all
that um what's the what's the difference
right I mean come on I mean you know I
mean you know Perpetual license model
with a 30% Services contract no one
wants to pay for right I mean the you
know the so so so in theory there's no
difference the reality we know when we
build these Mo there's a reason Wall
Street wants recurring Revenue when we
build these models once you get out to a
year 3 four five it's much more money
right um so I think just structurally
because you can't because you can't it's
hard to IPO it's hard to get acquired
it's hard to recruit people right
because young people don't want do get
like it's just I I mean we you maybe
there's a follow-up question I see
everyone that I talk to I I was just
talking to a company doing 80 million
mostly Perpetual that's all going
through the switch to try an IPO I just
see everyone switching right I mean I
was a I was a senior vice president of
adobe when we were acquired in July 15th
2011 at 3:01 p.m. uh Adobe was doing 4
billion almost all you know 75%
Perpetual right stock price was at 28 4
billion in Revenue today you know how
much money they're doing in Revenue 4
billion that's like 0% growth for for
all those years and I think we I think
stock price is at 80 okay why like it's
all recurring right so I you know try
try to change because that's just the
right or I I mean I I have no like
religious or visceral views but the
world's the world say we don't want it
right but look you know but to not be
binary then we could break a wrap it up
take a look storm you know where I'm a
partner now was the incubated this
company called mobile iron that ipoed a
couple months ago big success mobile
iron is the SAS company look at it it's
half it's half Perpetual half sass right
the truth is you just want to be sassy
right it's like it's like Services
Professional Services my learning on
Professional Services is you're an idiot
if you don't charge for Professional
Services you know why as long as it's
20% or less of your Revenue you get full
credit for it and all the customers will
pay it they'll all pay services right
they'll all pay for scanning the paper
documents in they don't mind right they
don't care 25 Grand to to do this 50
Grand whatever right as long as it's not
more than 20 or 25% of your Revenue you
still count as a ass company right do a
little of that try and switch some of
the Perpetual to recurring mix it up
look like mobile iron I think you're
okay that's what I would look at yeah
one more one more anyone
else yeah uh you mentioned you brought
on your your uh new the good VP sales
that he brought with him a certain you
know sort of set of processes you just
comment on sort of what some of those
basic processes were that he put in
place boy I got to tell you and and
Brendan's my brother I mean I love him
right I don't think he brought any
processes in place I mean we came in we
had Salesforce we had maretto we had a
lead scoring system that was built it
was primitive back in cuz lead score was
not as sophisticated and all he did was
he he he he changed who got what leads
routed through Salesforce that's it
there were no process changed he did
change the script right the I mean but
but I would say script and Lead routing
were the only two things that I saw that
were changed right maybe for a long time
so what were the previous guy doing
wrong
um uh the previous guy came from a
company that was doing 700 million at
the time and did not know how to work in
a startup because he came from
Salesforce which was my fault not his
right um and he wasn't and and because
of that he couldn't understand what
types cuz he had 11 people in sales
operations and four sales Engineers
supporting him so he couldn't even
understand what some of these things you
need to do because it's all handed to
you it's it's not that he didn't work
hard he worked very hard but there's so
much infrastructure around you that that
he had no idea what processes to put in
place right even when he tried for
example I mean he tried a lot of things
he tried to put together an outbound
team for us we didn't have any outbound
at the time right it's a good idea right
but he' never done it before he had no
idea how to do it right it was a it was
a it was a disaster right this outbound
team never outbound did nothing I mean
they never brought in a single deal
right so he just hadn't done it right so
so you can check that you can say these
things but if you haven't done it you
can't you can't do it for the first time
at your startup it's asking too much
yeah all right thanks everyone we
appreciate the time
[Applause]
my so let's give another round of
applause to
[Applause]
Jason so as I mentioned uh we're taking
August off and then we'll be back uh